Every Lunar New Year, Ba
Vang Pagoda receives a large number of
visitors from all over the country who come to visit and
worship at the beginning of the year. To ensure their health during
the pilgrimage, the needs for food and
personal hygiene are
essential. However,
these essential needs, coupled with the poor awareness of
some individual visitors, have turned
into indiscriminate littering on the
pathways leading into the pagoda grounds, despite the
pagoda having prepared hundreds of
trash cans placed everywhere. The
scattered garbage, including bottles, plastic bags, and other waste in this
sacred place, has become an
unpleasant sight and
negatively impacts the overall appearance of the pagoda.
Let's hear what people have to say
about the cleanliness and appearance of
Ba Vang Pagoda. Regarding the cleanliness and appearance of
Ba Vang Pagoda, it is very clean. The
pagoda's landscape is very clean and beautiful. With
such a clean landscape, why is it that despite the fact that
a lot of litter is discarded at the
pagoda, people still praise and
rate the area highly?  With the temple grounds so clean and beautiful, what else is there
that we don't know about?
When I visited, I
saw many
Buddhist devotees cleaning up very thoroughly
everywhere. They take care of the
hygiene and cleanliness. I've
seen many temples that are beautiful and clean, but at Ba Vang Temple on Lien Street, I saw many female
devotees cleaning the temple and doing the cleaning themselves.
Because of these devotees who clean the
temple daily, visitors to
Ba Vang Temple are surprised to
witness the quiet, brown-robed
female devotees picking up every
piece of trash in the temple grounds, regardless of
rain or shine, day or night. From the
main parking lot to the
temple pathways, wherever there is a gap, the devotees clean up as
quickly as
possible so that visitors can feel
more at ease, immerse themselves in the
fresh and beautiful natural scenery,
and increase their reverence for the
people – an action, however small, that
carries a significant meaning.  The image of
the Buddhist nuns picking up trash holds great significance, serving as a
reminder to everyone who
witnesses these actions. Many
visitors are moved by this, and their thoughts become clearer: they must pick up the trash they
have discarded and put it in a bag or
trash can. Each act of picking up trash
is a karmic connection, fostering kindness and
good fortune for everyone.
Hopefully, this cleaning of the temple, with the
dedication and practice of
these Buddhist nuns, will not only help
clean the surrounding area
for the benefit of everyone but also help
cleanse the innermost defilement of
each person's mind, paving the way for
liberation.